\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename gccint.info
@documentlanguage zh_CN
@c INTERNALS is used by md.texi to determine whether to include the
@c whole of that file, in the internals manual, or only the part
@c dealing with constraints, in the user manual.
@set INTERNALS

@c See miscellaneous notes in gcc.texi on checks/things to do.

@include gcc-common.texi

@settitle GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) Internals

@c Create a separate index for command line options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Merge the standard indexes into a single one.
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex tp cp

@paragraphindent 1

@c %**end of header

@copying
@en Copyright @copyright{} 1988, 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998,
@en 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007,
@en 2008, 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
版权 @copyright{} 1988, 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998,
1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010 自由软件基金会

@en Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@en under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@en any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
@en Invariant Sections being ``Funding Free Software'', the Front-Cover
@en Texts being (a) (see below), and with the Back-Cover Texts being (b)
@en (see below).  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
@en ``GNU Free Documentation License''.
您可以依据自由软件基金会所发行的GNU自由文档授权1.3版本或者之后的任何版本，对本文档进行复制，分发和/或修改；其中不可变章节为"资助自由软件"，封面文字为 (a) (参见下面)，以及封底文字为 (b) (参见下面)。授权的副本要被包含在标题为"GNU自由文档授权"的章节中。

@en (a) The FSF's Front-Cover Text is:
@en 
@en      A GNU Manual
@en 
@en (b) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is:
@en 
@en      You have freedom to copy and modify this GNU Manual, like GNU
@en      software.  Copies published by the Free Software Foundation raise
@en      funds for GNU development.
(a) FSF的封面文字为：

     GNU 手册

(b) FSF的封底文字为：

     您可以自由复制和修改本GNU手册，如同GNU软件。由自由软件基金会所发行的副本用于为GNU开发筹集资金。
@end copying
@ifnottex
@dircategory Software development
@direntry
* gccint: (gccint).            Internals of the GNU Compiler Collection.
@end direntry
@en This file documents the internals of the GNU compilers.
该文档介绍了GNU编译器的内部实现。
@sp 1
@insertcopying
@sp 1
@end ifnottex

@setchapternewpage odd
@titlepage
@title GNU Compiler Collection Internals
@versionsubtitle
@author Richard M. Stallman and the @sc{GCC} Developer Community
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage
@summarycontents
@contents
@page

@en @node Top, Contributing,, (DIR)
@en @top Introduction
@en @cindex introduction
@node Top, Contributing,, (DIR)
@top 简介
@cindex introduction

@en This manual documents the internals of the GNU compilers, including
@en how to port them to new targets and some information about how to
@en write front ends for new languages.  It corresponds to the compilers
@en @ifset VERSION_PACKAGE
@en @value{VERSION_PACKAGE}
@en @end ifset
@en version @value{version-GCC}.  The use of the GNU compilers is documented in a
@en separate manual.  @xref{Top,, Introduction, gcc, Using the GNU
@en Compiler Collection (GCC)}.
本手册介绍了GNU编译器的内部实现，包括怎样移植到新的目标机上，以及一些如何为新语言编写前端的信息。手册基于编译器（GCC）版本4.6.0（revision 167194）。GNU编译器的使用方法在另一个手册中介绍，@xref{Top,, Introduction, gcc, Using the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC)}。

@en This manual is mainly a reference manual rather than a tutorial.  It
@en discusses how to contribute to GCC (@pxref{Contributing}), the
@en characteristics of the machines supported by GCC as hosts and targets
@en (@pxref{Portability}), how GCC relates to the ABIs on such systems
@en (@pxref{Interface}), and the characteristics of the languages for
@en which GCC front ends are written (@pxref{Languages}).  It then
@en describes the GCC source tree structure and build system, some of the
@en interfaces to GCC front ends, and how support for a target system is
@en implemented in GCC@.
本手册主要是一个参考手册而不是教程。它讨论了如何帮助GCC (@pxref{Contributing})，GCC所支持的主机和目标机的机器特征(@pxref{Portability})，GCC与这些系统的ABI是如何联系的(@pxref{Interface})，GCC前端所支持的语言特征(@pxref{Languages})。然后描述了GCC源文件目录结构和构建系统，GCC前端的一些接口，以及GCC如何实现对目标系统的支持。

@en Additional tutorial information is linked to from
@en @uref{http://gcc.gnu.org/readings.html}.
更多参考资料的链接在@uref{http://gcc.gnu.org/readings.html}上。

@en @menu
@en * Contributing::    How to contribute to testing and developing GCC.
@en * Portability::     Goals of GCC's portability features.
@en * Interface::       Function-call interface of GCC output.
@en * Libgcc::          Low-level runtime library used by GCC.
@en * Languages::       Languages for which GCC front ends are written.
@en * Source Tree::     GCC source tree structure and build system.
@en * Testsuites::      GCC testsuites.
@en * Options::         Option specification files.
@en * Passes::          Order of passes, what they do, and what each file is for.
@en * GENERIC::         Language-independent representation generated by Front Ends
@en * GIMPLE::          Tuple representation used by Tree SSA optimizers
@en * Tree SSA::        Analysis and optimization of GIMPLE
@en * RTL::             Machine-dependent low-level intermediate representation.
@en * Control Flow::    Maintaining and manipulating the control flow graph.
@en * Loop Analysis and Representation:: Analysis and representation of loops
@en * Machine Desc::    How to write machine description instruction patterns.
@en * Target Macros::   How to write the machine description C macros and functions.
@en * Host Config::     Writing the @file{xm-@var{machine}.h} file.
@en * Fragments::       Writing the @file{t-@var{target}} and @file{x-@var{host}} files.
@en * Collect2::        How @code{collect2} works; how it finds @code{ld}.
@en * Header Dirs::     Understanding the standard header file directories.
@en * Type Information:: GCC's memory management; generating type information.
@en * Plugins::         Extending the compiler with plugins.
@en * LTO::             Using Link-Time Optimization.
@en 
@en * Funding::         How to help assure funding for free software.
@en * GNU Project::     The GNU Project and GNU/Linux.
@en 
@en * Copying::         GNU General Public License says
@en                     how you can copy and share GCC.
@en * GNU Free Documentation License:: How you can copy and share this manual.
@en * Contributors::    People who have contributed to GCC.
@en 
@en * Option Index::    Index to command line options.
@en * Concept Index::   Index of concepts and symbol names.
@en @end menu
@menu
* Contributing::	如何帮助测试和开发GCC。
* Portability::		GCC的可移植性。
* Interface::		GCC输出的函数调用接口。
* Libgcc::		GCC使用的低级运行时库。
* Languages::		GCC前端支持的语言。
* Source Tree::		GCC源目录结构和构建系统。
* Testsuites::		GCC测试包。
* Options::		选项描述文件。
* Passes::		pass的顺序，它们做了什么，以及相关的源文件。
* GENERIC::		前端生成的语言无关的表示。
* GIMPLE::		Tree SSA优化器使用的元组表示。
* Tree SSA::		分析和优化GIMPLE
* RTL::			大多pass赖以工作的中间表示。
* Control Flow::	维护和操作控制流图。
* Loop Analysis and Representation::  对循环的分析和表示。
* Machine Desc::	如何写机器描述指令模板。
* Target Macros::	如何写机器描述C宏和函数。
* Host Config::		编写 @file{xm-@var{machine}.h} 文件。
* Fragments::		编写 @file{t-@var{target}} 和 @file{x-@var{host}} 文件。
* Collect2::		@code{collect2} 是如何工作的; 如何找到 @code{ld}。
* Header Dirs::		理解标准头文件目录。
* Type Information::	GCC的内存管理；生成类型信息。
* Plugins::		使用插件来扩展编译器。
* LTO::			使用链接时优化。
* Funding::		如何向自由软件提供资金帮助。
* GNU Project::		GNU项目和GNU/Linux。
* Copying::		GNU通用公共授权告诉你如何能够复制和分享GCC。
* GNU Free Documentation License:: 如何能够复制和分享该手册。
* Contributors::	向GCC作出过贡献的人。
* Translation Contributors::	为翻译GCC Internals作出过贡献的人。
* Option Index::	命令行选项索引。
* Concept Index::	概念和符号名索引。
@end menu

@include contribute.texi
@include portability.texi
@include interface.texi
@include libgcc.texi
@include languages.texi
@include sourcebuild.texi
@include options.texi
@include passes.texi
@include rtl.texi
@include generic.texi
@include gimple.texi
@include tree-ssa.texi
@include loop.texi
@include cfg.texi
@include md.texi
@include tm.texi
@include hostconfig.texi
@include fragments.texi
@include collect2.texi
@include headerdirs.texi
@include gty.texi
@include plugins.texi
@include lto.texi

@include funding.texi
@include gnu.texi
@include gpl_v3.texi

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@c GFDL
@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------

@include fdl.texi

@include contrib.texi

@c Include translation contributors.
@include contrib-zh.texi

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@c Indexes
@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------

@en @node Option Index
@en @unnumbered Option Index
@node Option Index
@unnumbered 选项索引

GCC's command line options are indexed here without any initial @samp{-}
or @samp{--}.  Where an option has both positive and negative forms
(such as @option{-f@var{option}} and @option{-fno-@var{option}}),
relevant entries in the manual are indexed under the most appropriate
form; it may sometimes be useful to look up both forms.

@printindex op

@en @node Concept Index
@en @unnumbered Concept Index
@node Concept Index
@unnumbered 概念索引

@printindex cp

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@c Epilogue
@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------

@bye
