@c Copyright (C) 1988, 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c This is part of the GCC manual.
@c For copying conditions, see the file gcc.texi.

@en @node Header Dirs
@en @chapter Standard Header File Directories
@node 头文件目录
@chapter 标准头文件目录

@en @code{GCC_INCLUDE_DIR} means the same thing for native and cross.  It is
@en where GCC stores its private include files, and also where GCC
@en stores the fixed include files.  A cross compiled GCC runs
@en @code{fixincludes} on the header files in @file{$(tooldir)/include}.
@en (If the cross compilation header files need to be fixed, they must be
@en installed before GCC is built.  If the cross compilation header files
@en are already suitable for GCC, nothing special need be done).
@code{GCC_INCLUDE_DIR}意味着对于本地和交叉都相同的。这是GCC存放私有包含文件和修订过的（fixed）包含文件的地方。交叉编译的GCC会对@file{$(tooldir)/include}下的头文件运行@code{fixincludes}。（如果交叉编译头文件需要被修订，它们必须在构建GCC之前安装。如果交叉编译头文件已经适合GCC，则不需要任何特定修改。）

@en @code{GPLUSPLUS_INCLUDE_DIR} means the same thing for native and cross.  It
@en is where @command{g++} looks first for header files.  The C++ library
@en installs only target independent header files in that directory.
@file{GPLUSPLUS_INCLUDE_DIR}意味着对于本地和交叉都相同的。这是@command{g++}首先查找头文件的地方。C++库只安装目标独立的头文件到这里。

@en @code{LOCAL_INCLUDE_DIR} is used only by native compilers.  GCC
@en doesn't install anything there.  It is normally
@en @file{/usr/local/include}.  This is where local additions to a packaged
@en system should place header files.
@code{LOCAL_INCLUDE_DIR}只被本地编译器使用，GCC并不安装任何文件到里面。正常情况下为@file{/usr/local/include}。这是系统放置额外头文件的地方。

@en @code{CROSS_INCLUDE_DIR} is used only by cross compilers.  GCC
@en doesn't install anything there.
@code{CROSS_INCLUDE_DIR}只被交叉编译器使用，GCC并不安装任何文件到里面。

@en @code{TOOL_INCLUDE_DIR} is used for both native and cross compilers.  It
@en is the place for other packages to install header files that GCC will
@en use.  For a cross-compiler, this is the equivalent of
@en @file{/usr/include}.  When you build a cross-compiler,
@en @code{fixincludes} processes any header files in this directory.
@code{TOOL_INCLUDE_DIR}被本地和交叉编译器共同使用。这是其它安装包安装头文件以供GCC使用的地方。对于交叉编译器，这相当于@file{/usr/include}。当构建交叉编译器时，@code{fixincludes}会处理该目录下的任何文件。
